all right in this video we're going to
talk about finding the magnitude and
direction angle of a vector so we've got
four examples here let's do Part A first
a lot of times what I'll do is I'll
simply graph the vector to kind of get a
feel for this direction angle so if you
graph the vector with components
negative three comma four the way we'll
graph them is we always kind of put the
starting point at the origin and the
negative three just says go three units
to the left and then the second
component says go four units up so the
vector negative three comma four would
be this vector that points kind of off
to the left and up it's got a it's going
to be sitting here in Quadrant two okay
so we want to figure out that angle you
know maybe we can call it theta that's
associated with this this vector maybe
the first thing let's find the magnitude
so let's see so to figure out the
magnitude of this vector so maybe we
call this vector V so the magnitude of
vector V again sometimes I've seen it
with a you know you'll put it in just a
single set of bars sometimes people also
write it with two
so to figure out the magnitude we simply
take each component we square it square
each one add them together in square
root it so again oh we're really using
it's just the distance formula
Pythagorean theorem so negative 3
squared that's going to be 9 plus 16
that'll be the square root of 25 which
will simply give us a magnitude of 5 so
we would say this vector has a magnitude
of 5 and when you want to find out the
direction angle what you could do is you
could think about a little right
triangle so here's theta so the opposite
side would have length for the adjacent
side okay yeah there's a negative but
I'm going to use a positive 3 because
again we're talking about triangles here
so if we do tangent well tangent is
opposite over adjacent and what we'll do
now is to figure out theta will just
take arc tangent of both sides so we'll
take arctangent of four over 3 so let's
see here I'm just going to hit 4 over 3
in my calculator
so 4/3 is one point three repeating so
4/3 and the next thing I'm going to do
is take the inverse tangent of that so
let's see 4 divided by 3 and now if we
do inverse tangent of that I'm getting
fadeth to be fifty three point one three
degrees and I think I'm going to round
this off just to 53 degrees now again
this is really you know you can think
about this this is really going to give
us an angle here in the first quadrant
right 53 degrees is just going to fall
in the first quadrant well what we're
going to do to figure out the angle here
so we know really this angle this
reference angle is just going to be 53
degrees so to figure out the direction
angle since it's in Quadrant two we'll
take 180 degrees subtract away 53
degrees that's going to give us 127
degrees and that's going to be the
direction angle now for our vector with
components negative 3 comma 4